when Abram was 99 years old
the Lord appeared to Abram I am Almighty
God walk before me and be blameless and
I will make my covenant between me and
you and will multiply you exceedingly
then Abram fell on his face and God
talked with him as for me behold my
covenant is with you and you shall be a
father of many nations no longer shall
your name be called Abram but your name
shall be Abraham for I have made you a
father of many nations
I will make you exceedingly fruitful and
I will make nations of you and Kings
shall come from and I will establish my
covenant between me and you and your
descendants after you in their
generations for an everlasting covenant
to be God to you and your descendants
after you also I give to you and your
descendants after you the land in which
you are a stranger all the land of
Canaan as an everlasting possession and
I will be their God as for you
you shall keep my covenant you and your
descendants after you throughout their
generations this is my covenant which
you shall keep between me and you and
your descendants after you every male
child among you shall be circumcised and
you shall be circumcised in the flesh of
your foreskins and it shall be a sign of
the Covenant between me and you he who
is eight days old among you shall be
circumcised every male child in your
generations he who is born in your house
or bought with money from any foreigner
who is not your descendant he who is
born in your house and he who is bought
with your money must be circumcised and
my covenant shall be in your flesh for
an everlasting government and the
uncircumcised male child who is not
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin
that person shall be cut off from his
people he has broken my covenant as for
Sara your wife you shall not call her
names
but Sarah shall be honey and I will
bless her and also give you a son by her
then I will bless her and she shall be a
mother of Nations kings of people's
shall be from then Abraham fell on his
face and laughed and said in his heart a
child will be born to a man who is 100
years old and shall Sarah who is 90
years old bear a child and Abraham said
to God or that Ishmael might live before
you know Sarah your wife shall bear you
a son and you shall call his name Isaac
I will establish my covenant with him
for an everlasting covenant and with his
descendants after him and as for Ishmael
I have heard you behold I have blessed
him and will make him fruitful and will
multiply him exceedingly he shall begin
12 princes and I will make him a great
nation but my covenant I will establish
with Isaac whom Sarah shall bear to you
at this set time next year then he
finished talking with him and God went
up from Abraham
so Abraham took Ishmael his son all who
were born in his house and all who were
bought with his money every male among
the men of Abraham's house and
circumcised the flesh of their foreskins
that very same day as God had said to
him Abraham was 99 years old when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin
and Ishmael his son was 13 years old
when he was circumcised dinh the flesh
of his foreskin that very same day
Abraham was circumcised and his son
Ishmael and all the men of his house
born in the house or bought with money
from a foreigner were circumsized with
him
[Music]